Welcome to Plural's podcast. [music]
You are about to be blessed by the
teaching ministry of Pastor [music]
Aking.
It is going to be an enlightening time
in God's word, renewing your mind and
transforming your life to fulfill
[music]
God's purpose. We pray for you that you
are established in all the truths of
God's word [music] taught to be. Let's
get right into it.
Welcome back to the Plural's podcast.
This is your daily dose of God's word,
transforming you to fulfill God's
purpose for your life. We are looking at
preservation in the newness of life, and
we have been we have laid the foundation
for this study already.
Um we could even go further in the
foundation to look at what we have seen
on God's purpose and how that God's
purpose requires growth to fulfill. We
saw that that growth happens on our
mind, and then we also concluded that
what we are meant to grow in is the
reality of the new creation or the
reality of the newness of life. So, once
we have that settled, what we need to
understand is what is this life exactly
that we are talking about. And we saw
that our understanding of life needs to
be wholesome. When we speak of life,
there will be external and internal
realities to that life. For example, if
you talk about the life of a human
being, there are external realities that
pertains to the life that we have, as
well as internal ones. Ordinarily, we
are terrestrial creatures, animals,
beings, any way you want to use in this
case.
We're um terrestrial beings um
We But by the internal life that we
have, we can subdue water, we can subdue
the air, and in fact, we can now subdue
space. So, we can speak about the
external realities of the life we have,
and then the internal realities of the
life that we have. It's the same way
when we speak about this new life that
the Lord Jesus has brought to us. That
life is what God offered to man at the
beginning and will be fully consummated
at the end. And that life is often
spoken of as a world that we have to
enter into. Um it's why it's said that
we have the power of the age to come
today. So, there's that life that we are
going to fully see at play
upon the Lord's coming. But for now, we
still can walk in that new life today.
You'll notice that from text like Romans
6 and verse 4, it said Jesus died rose
to the end that we should walk in the
newness of life. So, we have to walk in
all that he has brought us into the new
life he has brought us into the new life
that is also inside us.
Um and we began examining the realities
of that life one after the other. We
have seen healing in the newness of
life. Now, we're looking at preservation
in the newness of life. The way we have
gone about this study is to see it that
in this new life that the Lord has given
us, everything that will be available at
the end is available now except
immortality to our bodies and
incorruption of matter or incorruption
of the cosmos. You could also say
incorruption of creation.
>> [snorts]
>> Every other thing is available except
those two things.
With that in mind then, the question is
what is available to our bodies today?
Also, what is available to the cosmos or
to us relative to the cosmos today?
We've seen that healing is available to
our body, but then relative to the
cosmos that is still corrupt and
therefore can be sick from time to time.
The same way a mortal body can be sick
from time to time is the way a corrupt
cosmos can be sick from time to time.
So, there will be events that just
happen reflecting the sickness in the
world, you know, what people may call
natural disasters. Unfortunately, some
people call it acts of God. And these
different things are They are things
that reflect things that They are things
that can be They can be
They can have negative impact and
implications on humanity particularly.
Now, the understanding we have from
God's word is not to be indifferent
about it and have a Q sera sera attitude
to to it. We are rather shown that there
is an attitude to the saints in Christ,
one who is in the new life ought to have
about things like this.
We
saw the Lord's reaction to a corrupt
world. So, whilst he's not yet effecting
in corruption to the world, he was able
to restrict, restrain, tame the sickness
that could show up in the corrupt world
that we are in. One very clear example
of that was when they were in a tempest
was
wind tempest was or a storm, let's just
say they were in a storm in
Matthew and in chapter 8
or Mark chapter 4. Maybe we should go to
Mark. We've been looking at it from
Matthew. Mark is where
it was recorded that he had no faith.
Matthew just said they were of little
faith.
So, in Mark chapter 4, in verse 35, on
the same day in the evening, when the
evening had come, he said to them, "Let
us cross over cross over to the other
side." Now, when they had left the
multitude, they took him along in the
boat as he was, and other little boats
were also with him.
And a great windstorm arose,
and waves beat into the boat, so a
corrupt world that is at a particular
moment sick, right? And waves beat into
the boat so that it was already filling.
But, when he was in the stern but he was
in the stern asleep on a pillow, and
they awoke him and said to him,
"Teacher, do you not care that we are
perishing?"
Matthew said, "Save us, for we perish."
Then verse 39, he arose and rebuked the
wind and said to the sea, "Peace, be
still." Can you imagine that? He's
speaking to
the cosmos. He's speaking to the natural
world, and he tells it, "Peace." So,
he's saying this situation is chaotic,
and he's speaking peace to that chaotic
situation. This is an unwell situation.
This is a sick situation. Peace. Or is
the same way you could say, "Be healed."
And he says, "Be still." And the wind
ceased, and there was a great calm. But
he said to them, "Why are you so
fearful? How is it that you have no
faith?"
Matthew records it as you they were of
little faith.
So, and they feared that zealously asked
one another, "Who is this that even the
wind and and sea obey him?" All right?
So, very important to see that
there was something the Lord could do
about a sick world.
Not just about sick bodies, but about a
sick cosmos, about a sick world. It's
either
that was something only the Lord could
do, or he's saying it's the right of man
in faith in God, faith in the redeeming
God, you know, is something man who has
faith in Yahweh, the redeeming God, can
do. And his response is pretty clear
about the fact that it was not exclusive
to him. It's not him because it's the
incarnate Son of God. It's rather
because
he acts it by faith. How is it that you
have no faith? Matthew's account makes
it clearer, you know, says, "Why are you
so fearful?" I believe.
"O ye of little faith." That means you
could have done something about this.
Another instance we may argue is when
the winds got boisterous when the Lord
was walking in the water.
And
Peter got into fear, and the Lord said
there was no business for that. So,
we see him exercise authority, dominion
over
this sick cosmos. He was able to put it
in check.
We could also point to the instance of
the Lord cursing the fig tree, which is
like cursing the curse. So, it was not
bearing fruit, but was bringing leaves.
You might argue maybe it's to the end of
a renewal, even though it was cursed
from its root.
Um or whatever other case you might try
to make, but he addressed a sick
situation in the world and he did
something about it. So, we clearly see
that there's authority and power over
that. And immediately he did when the
disciples marveled about it, he told
them he did it by faith. Very important.
Now, today people like to make a lot of
excuses. God will do what he wants to do
it and so on and so forth, but you won't
have been walking with Jesus and had
that sense about a number of things that
he did. He did [snorts] seem that he was
telling nonsense. When you see sick
situations in the world, your faith in
Yahweh, the redeeming God, is basis of
addressing those things.
Um now, there are discretionary
miracles, no doubt. I think I've been
saying this from when we have been
looking at healing. Healing is
spoken of very strongly in God's word as
readily available. But there are
discretionary miracles. The Lord was not
walking on water all the time. He wasn't
multiplying loaves and fishes. He had
food from the natural world as he should
normally. But there are things that then
are in the
the realm of the right to exercise
authority over. Particularly when we see
sickness and disease now, not only in
the body, but also in the cosmos.
Another instance we looked at was that
of Paul.
Um Acts chapter 27, he knew by the
spirit there was going to be
there was going to be a disaster up
front and he thought it was going to
affect their lives as well. And
eventually the angel of the Lord spoke
to him that their lives would be
preserved.
And um
the the interaction of an is an angel of
the Lord. Another instance shows
they play role when it comes to this
obvious matter. Something that becomes
extremely clear from the Lord himself,
you know. So, eventually their lives
were preserved, showing us God
preserved. But before we go to see how
angels play role in this, we should lead
us to the Old Testament text like we
said we will go to today. I want to show
you another text by Paul in this regard
because there were many instances where
Paul was preserved in his ministry even
despite experiencing persecution. And we
do know that he died from persecution,
which is something to glory him.
This is not death from just the sequel.
This is death in carrying out his
assignment.
God preserves deliverers from that, and
there are times where there is glory in
that as well. So, I mean, there's always
glory in martyrdom, no no doubt. But, I
mean, if you could you should believe
for preservation, and
or if otherwise in God's purposes a
beautiful thing to still bear.
In 2 Corinthians 1 and in chapter 1,
Paul shows his faith. Let's use that
word even before we get to other
explanations on preservation in the
newness of life. He shows his faith
about God's power to deliver
and preserve. We'll see 2 Thessalonians
chapter 1. I don't want to get into
other texts that talk about preservation
as well, but it's something
that seemed to be normative in the faith
of the
apostles
about what God does. Now, in 2
Corinthians 1 and 8, he was talking
about all the experiences he has he has
had, the discomforts, the sufferings,
the persecution. For we do not want you
to be ignorant, brethren, of our trouble
when we came to Asia,
that we were burdened beyond measure,
above strength, so that we despaired
even of life. Yet, so I mean, it is so
terrible what they were going through
that they were like, "Oh boy, I'm like,
you know,
sometimes maybe it's better off not to
be alive." Imagine that's so serious
because
it sounds like he's talking about
depression.
>> [snorts]
>> And it's good to know that they had the
emotions through the experience, yet
they were still in faith.
Now, verse 9 says, "Yes, we had the
sentence of death in ourselves, that we
should not trust in ourselves, but in
God who raises the dead."
So, it's the situation was so bad that
there was nothing they could do but
trust in God. Then verse 10 says, "We
should trust in God who raises the
dead." Look at that. Is that not very
important? He's making a connection
between redemption, the resurrection,
and preservation and deliverance. Verse
10, "Who delivered us from so great a
death and does deliver us, in whom we
trust he will still deliver us." This
was Paul's faith. "You also helping
together in prayer for us." So, you are
saying this is a fixed stand. Who
delivered us, does deliver us, will
deliver us, and it's happening in the
place of prayer. For you helping
together in prayer for us
that many thanks may be given by many
persons on our behalf for the gift
granted to us through many. There are so
many texts on this. Our prayer plays a
role here. I will get to that later. But
for now, still talking about prayer,
preservation, let's look at the Lord
Jesus. We saw this the last episode as
well. Matthew chapter 26 and I want you
to take us to the Old Testament text
where would make a final settlement of
the reality of preservation in the new
life that we have.
In Matthew 26:53, when the apostles the
his disciples, the Lord's disciples were
trying to defend themselves with sword,
the Lord told them in verse 52, "Put
your sword away in its place, for all
who take the sword will perish by the
sword. Do you not Do you think that I
cannot now pray to my father and he will
provide me with more than 12 legions of
angels?
How then could the scriptures be
fulfilled that it must happen? Verse So,
in God's purpose there might be times
in the mission and our spiritual
assignment particularly people
will not take the rights to preservation
and deliverance and it's glory to God in
doing that. But there is,
notwithstanding, the Lord is saying the
rights to preservation. Something the
enemy himself, in Matthew chapter 4,
mentions Satan himself mentions in
Matthew 4, Luke 4 as well, where he in
tempting the Lord to do things out of a
wrong motive, he said, "If you are the
son of God, prove a point."
He says, "Throw yourself down. He shall
give his angels charge over you. In
their hands they shall bear you up, lest
you dash your feet against a stone."
It's such a settled reality that there's
preservation
in God, the redeeming God. And if we may
add at this juncture by the ministry of
angels, is quoting Psalm 91 and is such
a huge text in this regard. So, we're
going to go there and we'll make
reference to all that Old Testament text
in the subsequent episodes that
establish preservation as what God makes
available to you via redemption. So, we
are seeing it said that Yahweh does
these works is in the context of the
redemption that is fulfilled in Christ,
no doubt, because
this revelation of Yahweh is in the
light of redemption, is in the light of
the Exodus.
You know, in the light of his reign over
us in our death. In Psalm 91 it says,
"He that dwells in the secret place of
the Most High shall abide under the
shadow of the Almighty." This is
preservative, protective.
"I will say of the Lord is my refuge and
my fortress, my God in whom I will
trust. Surely, he shall deliver you from
the snare of the fowler
and from perilous pestilence. He shall
cover you with his feathers. Under his
wings you shall take refuge. His truth
or faithfulness shall be your shield and
buckler. You shall not be afraid." So,
there is your part in faith of the
terror by night, nor the arrow that
flies by
by noonday, nor the pestilence that
walks in the darkness, nor the
destruction that lays waste at noonday.
"A thousand shall fall at your side,
10,000 at your right hand, but you it
shall not come near you. Only with your
eyes shall you look why? They are in
faith in Yahweh. Now, for those who are
experiencing that, there's a case where
it says, "You shall look and see the
reward of the wicked." But there are
some other times where it's just that
they are not walking in preservation,
unfortunately. So, it's not God picking
people, it's people walking with God.
Verse 9, "Because you have made Yahweh
your refuge, even the Most High your
dwelling place, no evil shall befall
you. When you are in the newness of life
in this place of fellowship with Yahweh,
he's telling us you're in a state where
there is preservation. This is a reality
that we have and that we also affirm.
Supply powerful in the place of prayer.
I I'm going to get to verse 11 and 12.
No evil shall befall you and any plague
come near your dwelling. For he shall
give his angels charge over you to keep
you in all your ways. In their hands
they shall bear you up lest you dash
your foot against a stone. And we'll go
to verse 16. I'm talking about long
life. We'll see all of this in the next
episode. And for now,
it is very clear in God's word that
there is such a thing as preservation in
the newness of life. It's not to be
ignored. It's meant to be acknowledged.
We are meant to be in faith for it and
we are meant to walk in it. All right,
thank you. God bless you.
Fulfill God's purpose.
We trust you were blessed by today's
[music] episode.
Do stay in faith about all you've heard
to walk in it.
>> [music]
>> To learn more of God's word, visit
plurals.org.
You will find answers to your questions
[music] on the gospel, God, his purpose,
and how to fulfill it.
Whilst [music] on our website, don't
forget to join the Plurals community
channel on WhatsApp. And follow us on
all our social media handles at [music]
plurals_org.
For now, stay blessed and keep [music]
walking in his purpose.